Welcome to the lesson on planning a Web service.
Previously, you learned how to create your own private blockchain.
For a private blockchain to be valuable,
it will need to integrate with the Web service so that
the information is consumable for client applications.
Think of it this way, since blockchains at their simplest are a form of data storage,
we'll need a way to extract out information to be able to use it.
Web services bridge the gap for consumers to interact with data in the blockchain.
Web services are also pervasive in how the world transmits and uses information nowadays.
Even the video that you're watching inside of this browser is thanks to a Web service,
where the client is retrieving information that it needs from the server.
Throughout this lesson, we'll be breaking down this diagram.
Learning how to modify our private blockchain with Node.js,
RESTful APIs, and other third-party
libraries to be useful for consumers to interact with.
A lot of this lesson is about planning,
planning, and more planning.
In order to understand the thought processes behind this plans,
they will help you in the future as you develop
your own blockchain services and consider integrating them with Web services.
In this lesson, we'll guide you to understand, first,
how to analyze blockchain use cases to determine if it requires a Web service.
Then, decide on a Web service language.
Next, we'll explain Node.js frameworks and its components for the blockchain.
Lastly, we'll decide on an appropriate mock data set.
Now, this course assumes that you already have some familiarity with
the concept of Web services and are comfortable using JavaScript.
If not, please, do take some time to review the resources I've linked down below.
Having a grasp of these topics will make
your experience learning the upcoming topics much easier.
Now, let's start with an overview of Web services.